
Q: I want command to display system information in linux?

Ans: uname -a

It displays the overview of the system, including the kernel name, hostname, kernel version, architecture, and operating system.


Q: I have 10 users in the server. I want to see all of them. Tell me the command?

Ans: who or users


Q: I want to create directory inside that sub dir 1 inside that sub dir 2. Tell me the command?

Ans: mkdir -p devops/aws/sre 


Q: Is there any command to create file other than touch, vi in linux

Ans: cat > newfile.txt

After running this command, you can type text into the terminal. Press Ctrl+D to save the file and exit. The file newfile.txt will be created with the text you typed.


Q: Tell me the command to see list of files and directories?

Ans: tree


Q:  >demo.json Explain about this command?

Ans: nullify the data in demo.json file. Removing all the data


Q: I want to see last 10 lines in file. Tell me the command?

Ans: tail filename


Q: I want to see first 10 lines in file. Tell me the command?

Ans: head filename


Q: I need to search some context and I don’t know the filename. Tell me how you will search?

Ans: grep -l “search name” *


Q: If you know the file name then how will you search?

Ans: grep “search name” filename or grep -i “search name” filename 


Q: Tell me values for read, write, execute?

Ans: read = 4, write = 2, execute = 1


Q: Tell me default umask value in Linux?

Ans: 022 [file, dir]


Q: What is default file & directory permission?

Ans: 
Files: By default, files are created with permissions of 644 (rw-r--r--).
Directories: By default, directories are created with permissions of 755 (rwxr-xr-x).


Q: I have file demo.txt with user name ravi. I need to change to root user. How will you do?

Ans: Sudo chown root demo.txt


Q: What are the commands for hard link and soft link. Tell me diff b/w hard link and soft link?

Ans: 
Hard link
---------
ln demo.txt demo-link.txt

Soft link
---------
ln -s demo.txt demo-sl.txt 

Hard link                                                 vs                            Soft link
--------------                                                                       -------------------

1.If you delete original file, link will not be deleted	                       1.If you delete original file, link also deleted
2.hardlink not allowed for directory	                                         2.files and directories are allowed
3.The inode number is same for original file and linked file	                 3.inode number is different 


Q:    newfile.txt
          Hello world!
   I need to replace the Hello with Hi. Can I replace, If yes, How can I do?

Ans: Yes, sed 's/Hello/Hi/' newfile.txt


Q: Which command you use to check load average?

Ans: w or uptime


Q: Command to display the disk space usage?

Ans: df -h


Q: Suppose there are 10 rows of data in the file. I need to see from 2nd row to 5th row. How can I see?

Ans: awk ‘NR==2, NR==5  {print}’  filename


Q: What is the use of “last” command in Linux?

Ans: It will display a list of the most recent login sessions for all users or a specific user on the system. 


Q: kill -9 process_id. Why only 9 why not like 1, 2, 3……?

Ans: 1) SIGHUP       2) SIGINT       3) SIGQUIT ………. 9) SIGKILL  

So, we are using 9 to kill the process_id.


Q: I want to view the data without unzip. Tell me the command?

Ans: zcat demo.zip 


Q: What is the Difference between vi/etc/sudoers and visudo?

Ans:  

vi/etc/sudoers
-------------------
Multiple users can access the file and can do the configurations.

Visudo
---------
Only single user can access the file and he can do the configuration. If other users tries to open this file in same server then it displays like already opend/locked.


Q: Tell me the command to delete user?

Ans: sudo userdel -r <username>


Q: What is tee command in Linux?

Ans:  It will append the data and display the output

echo "Hello, World!" | tee file1.txt file2.txt

This will display "Hello, World!" in the terminal and save it in both file1.txt and file2.txt.




